#
# Some manpage.
#

=head1 NAME

tailfd - monitor a log file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tailfd> { I<options> } I<file> I<slave> 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tailfd> watches a log file and transfers all changes to a slave
pipe. The pipe can distribute these lines to other facilities or
processors.

The distribution is done on a line-by-line base. Lines are terminated
with LF.

The daemon can be shut down at any point by SIGTERM and restarted by
SIGHUP. It logs to the I<syslog> on the DAEMON-Facility.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 3

=item B<-p> I<pid-file>

Write PID to B<pid-file> instead of deriving the pid file name from
the log file name by concatenating ".pid".

=item B<-s> I<status-file>

Read and write status to and from B<status-file> instead of deriving
the pid file name from the log file name by concatenating ".status".

=item B<-d> I<debugmask>

Enable debugging messages. Debugging ist performed through syslog. The
debugging mask is a bitvector. The meaning of the particular debugging
flags I<DEBUG_xxxx> can be looked up at the source code.

=item B<-f>

Run in foreground and do not daemonize. This is especially useful with
the debugging option B<-d> to see the messages on B<stderr>.

=item B<-q>

Run in quiet mode. Only errors and important messages are logged.

=item B<-V>

Tell the version number.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

  tailfd -f /var/log/exim_mainlog teepee "/home/mrtg/bin/mrtg-exim" \
			"anywatcher -"

=head1 BUGS

Tell me...

=head1 VERSION

$Id: tailfd.pod,v 1.1.1.1 2002/01/07 17:18:53 eichholz Exp $

=head1 AUTHOR

Marian Eichholz <marian.eichholz@freenet-ag.de>

=head1 HISTORY

See F<README.HISTORY>


