#
# Some manpage.
#

=head1 NAME

tailfd - multiplex log file changes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tailfd> [B<-c> I<config-file> ] { I<options> }

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<tailfd> watches a log file and distributes all changes to so called
I<destinations> on a line-by-line basis. Normally it runs as a daemon
and logs to the I<syslog> daemon.

The notion I<destination> means files as well as processes, that are
capable of receiving input through B<stdin>. These destinations are
specified in the configuration file.

The configuration file is normally read from F</etc/tailfd.conf> but
can be read from elsewhere through the B<-c> option.

The daemon can be shut down at any point by SIGTERM and restarted by
SIGHUP. It uses the file F</var/Run/tailfd.status> as non volatile
memory. You can specify another file name in the configuration file
(see below).

The Daemon logs to the I<syslog> on the DAEMON-Facility.

It creates a normal PID file in F</var/run/tailfd.pid>
unless otherwise stated in the configuration file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 3

=item B<-c> I<config-file>

Use the alternate I<config-file> instead of F</etc/tailfd.conf>.

=item B<-d> I<debugmask>

Enable debugging messages. Debugging ist performed through syslog. The
debugging mask is a bitvector. The meaning of the particular debugging
flags I<DEBUG_xxxx> can be looked up at the source code.

=item B<-f>

Run in foreground and do not daemonize. This is especially useful with
the debugging option B<-d> to see the messages on B<stderr>.

=item B<-q>

Run in quiet mode. Only errors and important messages are logged.

=item B<-r>

Restart broken destinations. Normally, when a destination fails (disk
full or broken pipe), the daemon marks it internally as unusuable and
continues it's work without this specific destination. With the option
B<-r> it tries to restart the destination (re-create the pipe, the
file or whatever) and aborts, if this attempt fails. It's up to Your
policy.

=item B<-t> I<seconds>

Allow the monitored file to be inaccessable for I<seconds> before the
daemon aborts. Any external facility (loke a log cycler) has to
respect this contraint. I<seconds> defaults to 5 seconds.

=item B<-V>

Tell other version number.

=back

=head1 CONFIGURATION FILE

The configuration files is in the INI style and consists of
I<SECTIONS> that in turn contain I<key> to I<value>
-assignments. Currently only string type assignments are supported.

There may be I<comments> in the UNIX style with lattices (#) in the
first column.

=head2 The DAEMON section

In the DAEMON section global settings are specified.

=over 4

=item I<statusfile>

The name of the nonvolatile memory of this particular instance,
overriding the default.

=item I<pidfile>

The name of the PID file, overriding the default.

=back

The other sections specify so called I<destinations>.  A destination
is the distribution end point for each line of the monitored
file. They can be a plain file or a pipe process (when the I<command>
key is present).

=head2 Destinations

=over 4

=item I<stdout>

The key specifies a file, that is open by the daemons. If there is no
I<command> given, this file is the direct destination. Normally, this
file is connected to the B<stdout> of the pipe. It may be omitted, if
the pipe does not write to B<stdout> at all.

The file is created and truncated per default. It can be appended as
well, if the name is prefixed with a greater-than-sign, like in
I<stdout=">mailer.log"> (see the example below.)

=item I<args>

The optional arguments for the command can be specified here. They are
separated by whitespace. Thus, whitespace itself within the single
arguments must be escaped with backslashes. Additionally, You can
specify CTRL codes 0-25 (B<\a> - B<\z>) and every other character
with the octal notation (B<\000> - B<\777>). Of course, the
backslash itself must be escaped (B<\\>) just like the double quotes
(B<\">).

=back

=head1 EXAMPLE

 [DAEMON]
 statusfile = "temp.status"
    pidfile = "temp.pid"
   workdir  = "/home/marian/src/tailfd"

 [testlog1]
 command = "logalyzer"
 args="-c file\e with\e space -"
 stdout=">temp.catout"
 
 [testlog2]
 command = "/usr/local/bin/mklogstat"
 
 [FileBin]
 stdout="temp.out"

=head1 BUGS

Tell me...

=head1 VERSION

$Id: tailfdx.pod,v 1.1.1.1 2002/01/07 17:18:53 eichholz Exp $

=head1 AUTHOR

Marian Eichholz <marian.eichholz@freenet-ag.de>

=head1 HISTORY

See F<README.HISTORY>

=cut
